.\" Manpage for packet-bricks.
.\" Contact ajamshed@icsi.berkeley.edu to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "30 Oct 2015" "1.0" "Packet-bricks man page"
.SH NAME
bricks \- create a network traffic distributor
.SH SYNOPSIS
bricks [-dsh] [-f startup_script_file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Packet bricks is a Linux/FreeBSD daemon that is capable of receiving
and distributing ingress traffic to userland applications. Its main
responsibilities may include (i) load-balancing, (ii) duplicating
and/or (iii) filtering ingress traffic across registered applications.
The distribution is flow-aware (i.e. packets of one connection will
always end up in the same application). Packet bricks uses netmap
packet I/O framework for receiving packets and employs netmap pipes
to forward packets to end host applications.

In packet bricks, ingress traffic can be manipulated with packet
engine 'constructs' called "bricks". Currently the tool has
the following built-in bricks that are available for use:

1- LoadBalancer: Brick that is used to split flow-wise
traffic to different applications via netmap pipes.

2- Duplicator: Brick that is used to duplicate traffic
across each registered netmap pipe.

3- Merge: Brick that may be used to combine traffic between
2 or more netmap pipes.

A packet engine can be linked to any of these bricks with
any combination/configuration of user's liking. Please see the
bricks-scripts/ example directory and the README file to see
how bricks can be used to run variants of such packet engines.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -d
Run bricks in daemon mode. This will launch the tool
as a backrground process. The user is advised to run
this mode with a startup script file (-f) that helps
the bricks tool to initialize the network interface
and then immediately start scanning incoming traffic.
.IP -s
Run bricks shell. This option can only be used to
connect to the bricks that is already running in daemon
mode. User can enquire about traffic stats and even
stop the engine from reading more packets from the
interface.
.IP "-f startup_script_file"
Launch the bricks tool with a startup configuration
file. Please see bricks-scripts/*.lua files for details.
The bricks tool reads the startup configuration in lua
scripting language. Refer to the README file for a
walkthrough on how to create a customized startup
configuration.
.IP -h
Print the help menu.
.SH TROUBLESHOOTING
Packet  bricks  is  still in development stages. While we
welcome feedback, we suggest that you refer to the following
pointers before contacting the authors for bug reports.

1- Please install the required libraries mentioned in INSTALL file.  As
the system is still under active development, the program  may exhibit
unexpected behavior if libraries are not installed.

2- The README file in the netmap/ directory contains pointers on how to
enhance packet I/O performance. We suggest you to  follow  their  guide
for extracting maximum performance out of packet bricks as well.

3- Some users have reported erroneous behavior when executing tcpdump
with netmap-libpcap patch. tcpdump has compatibility  constraints  with
libpcap. Please refer to http://www.tcpdump.org/#old-releases to verify
which tcpdump version should be linked with the  latest  netmap-libpcap
release.  At  the time of writing, the latest netmap-libpcap version is
1.6.0. The compatible tcpdump version for this release is 4.6.0.
.SH SEE ALSO
bricks-server(1), bricks-shell(1), bricks-duplicate(1), bricks-load-balance(1), bricks-kill-server(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Asim Jamshed (ajamshed@icsi.berkeley.edu)
